[MUSIC]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It's supposed to be
a little bit of a difficult challenge.
It's really combining all the different
things that we've gone over today,
functions, arrays, objects, loops, and
just really tying everything together.
So let's see,
let me find my solutions, here we go.
>> Speaker 2: Is there
a solution file somewhere?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: There
is a solution slide.
I'll tell you how to get
to the solutions later.
I don't want give it away ahead of
time because then you'll cheat and
that would be too easy.
The first thing is for
questions one and two combined,
we have this animal test user.
For the first one though,
let me just type out the first version.
For the first one,
we can save our AnimalTest = a function.
And this function takes
a username as a parameter.
And then it just returns an object.
So, see that,
see how I expanded that object?
So there's an object there, and
then I just expand it out, and
in there,
I'm going to write some properties and
the property was, I believe it was
just username and then username.
So, this is a little bit confusing.
So, we have username on
one side of the colon and
then we have username on
the other side of the colon.
And username's a parameter,
which one actually is the one that's
going to be turned into the username.
So, if I called this and
I said var myCow = AnimalTest and
then I passed,
what's a good cow name,
like Bessy or something.
Bessy.
I don't know how to spell Bessy, but
that's as good as it's gonna get.
So is the property name Bessy,
or is that value gonna be Bessy?
Absolutely.
So
the value in this case is gonna be Bessy.
Here's the parameter.
When we have a property name on
the left side of the colon like that,
that's gonna be assumed as a string
in object literal notation.
And it won't ever be
evaluated as an expression.
So before I was talking about how we could
use bracket notation to put an expression
for the property name, we can't do
that with object literal notation.
So, keep that in mind that this
will always be assumed as a string.
If it makes you feel better, you can just
put it in quotes to remind yourself that
this one on the left is a string and
the value on the right is the one
that's going to be my parameter.
Which, once I pass the string Bessy,
then that parameter has the value Bessy.
And if we just wanted to
console.log(myCow.username),
that is going to print out Bessy, right?
Thumbs on that?
How many people have finished that one?
Awesome, good job guys.
So that's step one.
Then the second part of the question was,
if the arguments are, let's see.
If the length of the arguments is greater
then one, put the other arguments
as a property, or as an array.
Sorry, let me reword that.
As a property with the value of
an array of those arguments.
Are you guys following?
I kind of lost myself in that explanation.
So, other args is going to be
an array of the arguments passed in,
if there's more than one argument.
And so there's a few ways
you could have done that.
So one way you could do it,
so here we have args,
which is going to be the length of the,
I think a better one would be like,
argLength, just to be like a little
more clear on what args is.
So we say argLength.
So that's going to be the length of
the arg, it's going to be a number, and
then we have a-
>> Speaker 2: Arglength,
in the if statement?
No?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Thank you.
Someone's paying attention.
Awesome.
So if the length is greater than one, then
we're going to enter into this if block.
And the simplest way, I'm using
the concepts that we actually covered in
the class, is just to loop
through that arguments array and
push them except for the first one,
so that's why our i there,
our var i is gonna start
at one instead of zero.
And so you loop through, and
you push each argument into an array,
and that would create an array.
The other one is what I
mentioned briefly earlier,
the array.prototype.slice.call
will also turn it into an array.
But we can stick to this one
because it's more straightforward.
The other one goes into prototype land
which is not somewhere I really wanna
go right now.
Any questions about this method?
>> Speaker 3: I didn't see that
slice.call in the documentation so
call is a function of slice,
which is a method.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Call is
a method on all functions.
And if we have time tomorrow
I have some slides that go
over call and apply if we have time.
Fingers crossed.
>> Speaker 3: Call and apply.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so call and
apply are two function methods that are
commonly used and they're really useful
for functional programming when you're
doing some generic things with functions.
But we'll see if we get there tomorrow.
Hopefully we will.
>> Speaker 3: So they're part of any
built in method of any other object.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, yeah, exactly.
So like how push is a native array method,
call and
apply are native function methods.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And that goes back to
how functions are also objects,
they also have methods, etc.
Cool.
Did you have a question?
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: No?
Cool.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Sweet.
So let's put on word wrap here so
we can see everything.
So here's a more complicated
version of our first animal user.
So it takes a username,
it takes a species, it takes a tag line,
it takes noises.
So starting to sound familiar?
From our other exercises.
So what we're doing here is we're
creating a constructor function for
our animal model.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And so
here we have an object and
we're just storing it in
a variable which you could do.
And again you can just
put quotes around this.
So you know which one's which.
There you go and
we're just initializing these values.
And here at the very end,
we're returning that object,
and another way that you can
do this is simply by returning
the object literal,
instead of the variable name.
But they do the exact same thing.
There's no difference there.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Any
questions on this one?
No?
Cool.
So here's just an example
of how you would use it.
So we're passing in a series of arguments,
and then you can console.log(sheep) and
you'll see that sheep is going to be,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Hopefully,
oops, is going to be an object.
So here's sheep.
Our sheep, and
we see how its name is cloud.
It's a sheep.
Tag line is you can count on me and
it has a noises array of
the noises, and
it has an empty friends array.
I lost where I was.
Questions on that?
Cool.
So, I'm gonna try to go
through this quick so
that we can keep going.
So here's our function add friend,
it takes an animal and
it takes a friend which you
want to add to the friend.
So if you wanted to simply
push the whole object,
it would be animal.friends.push and
you would push that friend and so
that would be the entire object.
So at this point, if we looked at it,
we could do this.
Oops.
I keep trying to open
the console up in Sublime.
It's not liking that.
Do we have sheep here still?
No.
Okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So let's do this.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: [SOUND] Okay.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay.
So we have sheep, and
now I think we'll just add.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cloud's
gonna be his own friend.
So we're gonna give sheep a sheep.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And so
now we can see that sheep
has itself as a friend.
And you can see there.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And then, if you
wanted to save space, you didn't want to
pass around whole objects or
you didn't want to save whole objects,
you can just keep the username there or
their user ID or something like that.
And do it that way.
And, in that case it
would just save the name.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So, here are some
other ones, cows, sheep and llamas.
So here's one way that
we can create our farm,
by just using our array little notation,
putting those variables in there that
represent our animal objects like that.
>> Speaker 2: So those were already
created in the animal creator?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, up here.
You can kind of see.
Here's llama, here's cow and
here's how you can add matches.
So.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay.
Let's see.
So we're looping through farm.
We could actually use,
which might be better.
Is we could just use it regular for
loop with semicolons rather than this for
in-loop.
Because, again, if we had some properties
on our array it might do some silly
things that we aren't expecting.
But you can also do that as well.
So we have farm and
then inside farm we have animal.
For each animal on the farm, .matches.
So the matches,
it's creating a matches property there and
initializing it to an empty array.
So this function just gives each animal
in our farm the ability to have a match.
Whereas before,
they can only have friends.
Maybe you only get matches
if you're a premium user,
so you can only have friends, and if you
wanted to do the dating-matching part or
something, then you can upgrade them and
give them matches.
Just don't tell them they could just
put this function in their console and
they wouldn't have to pay anything.
That business model will be perfect.
So and
then here's a function that gives matches.
And it looks like it is just gonna loop
through all those animals in the farm.
And it's going to push the first
friend of each animal as a match.
You could get fancy with this and
make it a random match.
Or perhaps in future iterations
of your data structure,
you'll have some ratings based
on a test that they take.
And then they'll find in the farm
other animals that have a similar,
a close rating to them and
then match that way.
Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 2: So on this one, animal,
is it like cow, sheep, llama,
is that what it's, it's not like going
to the username and matching usernames.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Right.
It's-
>> Speaker 2: It's saying sheep to sheep
and cow to cow.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
exactly, so it's looping through.
And again, this would be better as a for
loop with semi-colons.
It will work this way, but in general,
you only wanna use those for
loops with semi-colons when
you're looping through an array.
>> Speaker 3: I used for each.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
or you can use for each.
We'll talk about that more tomorrow.
Cool, and
this is how you would use giveMatches.
You just pass the whole farm to it.
And then you can check it by
just inspecting your farm and
seeing if there's other
animals in your matches.
I think I said that all without breathing.
Any questions?
No?
>> Speaker 4: I have a question.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Sure.
>> Speaker 4: [COUGH] Line 75 and line 76.
So, farm on line 75 is an array.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Same thing with this.
>> Speaker 4: And then that variable
animal, is some indexer into the array.
What is it actually doing
on line 76 where it says
farm-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
animal is actually gonna be,
is gonna be the i.
So you could,
maybe it would look better if it was an i.
But in general you're gonna wanna use
the for loop with semicolons here,
where you say for var i equal less than
array.length, that one would be better.
This will work, but
since farm is an array,
in a lot MVCs, at least Backbone,
which is the one I use mostly,
is that your collection is
actually going to be an object.
It's not usually an array, it's usually
an object that contains an array.
That's probably where
the solution is basing that on.
Cool.
All right, so if you don't have any
questions on that, we'll just move
on to nesting.
And that's going to be our last topic for
today.
>> Speaker 2: Can you just speak to the
assignment or the exercise file where you
have under each exercise number
you have a code area and
then you have some items commented out is
that a hint for what you're trying to do?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Let's see.
This here?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, so.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so that's saying
that this console log will print out this.
>> Speaker 2: What about
on three below that.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
we're console logging sheep.
So, sheep should be an object
that looks like this.
>> Speaker 2: So
that's what the log [CROSSTALK] for that.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
So, it's just going to give you some
guidance into what you should be expecting
your solution to look like.
>> Speaker 2: All right, thanks.
>> Speaker 4: Can you go
down to the number eight?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 4: Then so, that matches Zeny?
So that Zeny is a sheep, and
that's why Zeny's in the matches?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It really depends
on how you implement your matches,
your give matches function.
We don't do species
discrimination on eFarmony,
so it's usually just the first one.
The solution does the first one, so
actually in the solution, it would be moo,
because that would be the frist index.
In this one,
maybe it's always the last one.
Just depends on how you implement it.
There's no robust-
>> Speaker 4: So
we're like matching one thing to another.
We're just saying the first or
the last or whatever.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
someone from your friends list
will be one of your match.
>> Speaker 4: Got it, okay, right on.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah and if you want
to build that out into something more
interesting, you're welcome to do that.
>> Speaker 4: Got it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: Like matching
sheep to sheep or?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.